Integrated
circuits (ICs) are the backbone of modern computing devices across industries,
including artificial intelligence (AI), consumer electronics, healthcare,
automotive, industrial, and aerospace. Moore Law has driven the semiconductor
IC industry toward smaller dimensions, improved performance, and greater energy
efficiency. However, as transistors shrink to atomic scales, aging-related
degradation mechanisms such as Bias Temperature Instability (BTI), Hot Carrier
Injection (HCI), Time-Dependent Dielectric Breakdown (TDDB), Electromigration
(EM), and stochastic aging-induced variations have become major reliability
threats. From an application perspective, applications like AI training and
autonomous driving require continuous and sustainable operation to minimize
recovery costs and enhance safety. Additionally, the high cost of chip
replacement and reproduction underscores the need for extended lifespans. These
factors highlight the urgency of designing more reliable ICs. This survey
addresses the critical aging issues in ICs, focusing on fundamental degradation
mechanisms and mitigation strategies. It provides a comprehensive overview of
aging impact and the methods to counter it, starting with the root causes of
aging and summarizing key monitoring techniques at both circuit and system
levels. A detailed analysis of circuit-level mitigation strategies highlights
the distinct aging characteristics of digital, analog, and SRAM circuits,
emphasizing the need for tailored solutions. The survey also explores emerging
software approaches in design automation, aging characterization, and
mitigation, which are transforming traditional reliability optimization. Finally, it outlines the challenges and future directions for improving aging
management and ensuring the long-term reliability of ICs across diverse
applications. 이상으로 오늘의 논문 요약을 마칩니다. 감사합니다.